# What is (HTTP) Proxy?
_HTTP, Secure HTTP and SSL_

SSL, TLS, HTTP, HTTPS Explained

__HTTP__ stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol. It is probably the most widely used protocol in the  world today. __HTTP is the protocol that is used for viewing web pages on the internet__. So when  you type in a web address, like google.com, you'll  notice that HTTP is automatically added at the beginning of the web address. And this indicates  that you are now using HTTP to retrieve this web page. In standard HTTP, all the information is sent in clear text. So all the information that is exchanged between your computer and that web server, which includes any text that you type on that website, that information is transferred over the public internet. And because it's transferred in clear text, it's vulnerable to anybody who wants it, such as hackers. Normally this would not be a big deal if you were just  browsing regular websites and no sensitive data such as passwords or credit card information are being used. But if you were to type in personal sensitive data, like your name, address, phone  number, passwords, or credit card information, that sensitive data goes from your computer and then it has to travel across the public internet to get to that web server. And this makes your  data vulnerable because a hacker somewhere on the internet can __listen in, as that data is being transferred__, and steal your information. This hacker may be stealing personal  information as it's traveling over the internet. He may have a name, phone numbers, address, credit card  numbers, and so on. So this is a problem as far as security. And this is why HTTPS was developed. 

__HTTPS__ stands for Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol. And this is __HTTP with a security feature. Secure HTTP encrypts the data that is being retrieved by HTTP__. It ensures that all the data that's being transferred over the internet between computers and servers is secure by making the data impossible to read. And it does this by using encryption algorithms to scramble the data that's being transferred. So, for example, if you were to go to a website that requires you to enter personal information,  such as passwords or credit card numbers, you will notice that an 'S' will be added to the HTTP in the web address. And this 'S' indicates that you are now using secure HTTP and have entered a secure website where sensitive data is going to be passed and that data is going to be protected. And, in addition to the 'S' being added, a lot of web browsers will also show a padlock symbol in the address bar to indicate that secure HTTP is being used. So by using secure HTTP, all the data which includes anything that you type, is no longer sent in clear text. It's scrambled in an unreadable form as it travels across the internet. So if a hacker were to try and steal your information he would get a bunch of meaningless data because the data is encrypted and the hacker would not be able to crack the encryption to unscramble the data. Secure HTTP protects the data by using one of two protocols. 

And one of these protocols is SSL. SSL or Secure Sockets Layer, is a protocol that's used to ensure security on the internet. It uses public key encryption to secure data. This is how SSL works. So when a computer connects to a website that's using SSL, the computer's web browser will ask the website to identify itself. Then the web server will send the computer a copy of its SSL certificate. __An SSL certificate is a small digital certificate that is used to authenticate the identity of a  website__. Basically it's used to let your computer know that the website you're visiting is trustworthy. Then the computer's  browser will check to make sure that it trusts the certificate. And if it does, it will send a message to the web server. Thereafter, the web server will respond back with an acknowledgment, so an SSL session can proceed. Then after all these steps are complete, encrypted data can now be exchanged between your computer and the web  server. And the other protocol that secure HTTP can use is called TLS. 

__TLS or transport layer security is the latest industry standard  cryptographic protocol__. It is the successor to SSL and it's based on the same specifications. And, __like SSL, it also authenticates the server, client, and encrypts the data__. 

A lot of websites are now using secure HTTP by default, regardless if sensitive data is going to be exchanged or not. And a lot of this has to do with Google. Because Google is now flagging websites as not secure if they are not protected with SSL. And if a website is not SSL protected, Google will penalize that website in their search  rankings. That's why, if you go to any major website, you'll notice that secure HTTP is being used rather than standard HTTP. 


Video Reference: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hExRDVZHhig&t=19s&ab_channel=PowerCertAnimatedVideos
